Really, ArcOS didn't have a vision. It started as a weekend project where I wanted to see what was capable with my ever growing HTML, CSS and JS skills. The original version of ArcOS, named WebOSv1, was supposed to be a two-day endeavour. Unfortunately, that didn't last. I kept expanding upon the initial project for days, eventually scrapping all of it and moving on to WebOSv2. Unlike v1, v2 actually had movable windows and a proper taskbar/start menu. Its design actually shared a lot of similarities with Windows XP, because, well, I like XP. WebOSv2 left a lot to be desired though, as all of the javascript code was written in 1 (one) script-tag in the HTML. As a result of that... odd decision, the LoC of WebOSv2's main HTML file turned out to be near the thousand lines. Remember, I was a starting developer.

After WebOSv2 came the age of Electron and NodeJS. I began working on WebOSv3 rather impulsively, because I learned what Discord and other big applications were (and still are!) using to display themselves as a desktop app: Electron. I followed a quick start guide from yesteryear to see if I could get it working, and when I did, I immediately started working on WebOSv3. v3 improved a lot as opposed to v2, which actually seems the be the trend, doesn't it? Anyway, v3 had filesystem interaction, multiple users, a bunch of personalization options, even its own Javascript powered terminal. When WebOS became ArcOS, I incremented the version from v3 to v4, not because I started over, but because the rebrand of the project changed the entire look and feel. WebOSv3 became ArcOSv4.

In July 2022 I wanted to do something different. I had been writing Vanilla JS implementations of ArcOS for over two years, and I wanted to tip the scales. So, I decided to go in the complete opposite direction as opposed to v4: I created ArcOS v5 using Typescript and Svelte. Because v5 used a JS framework, I lost the ability to directly interface with the user's filesystem. So, instead of working around that, I wrote a backend to go along with ArcOS that users could connect to, to store their files and settings in the cloud instead of locally on their machines. This worked perfectly.

Finally, ArcOS v6 rolled around. I started it near the end of 2023. Its idea was simple, I wanted to reimagine the implementation of v5 to create a more stable, professional and refined experience for the user. It sported services, multiple application instances by creating a custom Process system, a more consistent UI, a more refined bug reports system, more wallpapers, even experimental sideloading. After four consecutive years of writing code for WebOS and ArcOS, I decided to shut down the project. The fact of the matter was that I didn't like working on it anymore. So, on September 1st I said goodbye to the servers, to my team, to four years of hard work, so that I could focus on Sacruda.

And that's where it should've ended. Sounds like a happy ending, right? Five years of hard work closed off in harmony, left behind me. My life's work, abandoned to focus on other stuff. I'm sure I'm not the first person to tell you that you can't just kill off your life's work, a project into which you've poured literal years of hard work. You can't let such a project disappear in the endless void of history. Can you see where this is going? On January 1st 2025 I decided to continue the ArcOS project solo after having abandoned my team months prior. I'm planning to release ArcOS v7 in 2025: an effectively reimagined version of the operating system with zero similarities with its predecessors.
