vTDx was a couple of things. First of all it was a test to see what I could do in Typescript. Because of this, the entirety of vTDx, including the UI, was written in Typescript only code by using the DOM's APIs. vTDx stands for Vite-ToDo-X. the X really didn't have much of a meaning, but I felt it added something to the name that was missing otherwise. Anyway, vTDx was a continuation of TDx: another note taking application that I made using Vanilla JS in Electron.

I didn't have much of a vision when creating vTDx. I just wanted to see what was possible with my current Typescript skillset, so I chose to remake one of the projects that I was proud of at the time. Looking back, the design of both TDx and vTDx leave a lot to be desired, at least in my honest opinion, but all and all they weren't so bad. vTDx doesn't have a lot of customizability, but it does have a handful of both light mode and dark mode themes. You can collapse the sidebar, there's a trash, and a bunch more stuff I quite honestly can't remember anymore.

Now that ArcOS is dead, I think vTDx is my longest lasting project to date to still have an online deployment somewhere. I can't imagine how many security vulnerabilities have risen in the versions of the libraries I've used though, that's probably something I'd get nightmares about if I dare to open Dependabot, so, for my own sake, I won't. vTDx probably should have been discontinued and archived a LONG time ago, but in writing this I've decided not to. Just for the memes.
